README.md, before:

SOMPY
-----
A Python Library for Self Organizing Map (SOM)

As much as possible, the structure of SOM is similar to `somtoolbox` in Matlab. It has the following functionalities:

1. Only Batch training, which is faster than online training. It has parallel processing option similar to `sklearn` format and it speeds up the training procedure, but it depends on the data size and mainly the size of the SOM grid.I couldn't manage the memory problem and therefore, I recommend single core processing at the moment. But nevertheless, the implementation of the algorithm is carefully done for all those important matrix calculations, such as `scipy` sparse matrix and `numexpr` for calculation of Euclidean distance.
2. PCA (or RandomPCA (default)) initialization, using `sklearn` or random initialization.
3. component plane visualization (different modes).
4. Hitmap.
5. U-Matrix visualization.
6. 1-d or 2-d SOM with only rectangular, planar grid. (works well in comparison with hexagonal shape, when I was checking in Matlab with somtoolbox).
7. Different methods for function approximation and predictions (mostly using Sklearn).


### Dependencies:
SOMPY has the following dependencies (tested only with Python 2.7x):
- numpy
- scipy
- scikit-learn
- numexpr
- matplotlib
- pandas
- ipdb
- h5py

### Installation:
```Python
python setup.py install
```


Many thanks to @sebastiandev, the library is now standardized in a pythonic tradition. Below you can see some basic examples, showing how to use the library.
But I recommend you to go through the codes. There are several functionalities already implemented, but not documented. I would be very happy to add your new examples here. 

[Basice Example](https://gist.github.com/sevamoo/035c56e7428318dd3065013625f12a11)

### Citation

There is no published paper about this library. However if possible, please cite the library as follows:

```
Main Contributers:
Vahid Moosavi @sevamoo
Sebastian Packmann @sebastiandev
Iván Vallés @ivallesp 
```


For more information, you can contact me via sevamoo@gmail.com or svm@arch.ethz.ch, but please report an issue first.




Thanks a lot. 
Best Vahid Moosavi

Commit message:

added project_realdata to take into account features' error bars

README.md, after:

SOMPY
-----
A Python Library for Self Organizing Map (SOM), credits at the end of this doc.

This version has been forked and modified to be used for astronomical purposes. [ID]

-----

### New features


##### Class ``Whatever``

PLEASE ALEX PUT HERE A DESCRIPTION OF WHAT YOU DID.

##### Function ``project_realdata`` 

Similar to ``project_data``, but it takes also an array-like input with standard deviation of the data to map. The basic idea is that the nearest BMU is assigned with a chi<sup>2</sup>-distance, i.e. (X-Y)<sup>2</sup>/Sigma<sup>2</sup>.
Example:
```python
# given two datasets of galaxy colors, one to train (data_train) 
# and one to be mapped (data_map). For the latter we also know
# 1sigma error for each color (errdata_map).
som = sompy.SOMFactory.build(data_train, mapsize=(20,20))
som.train(shared_memory='yes')
ac = som.bmu_ind_to_xy(som.project_realdata(data_map,errdata_map))
```



[Basice Example](https://gist.github.com/sevamoo/035c56e7428318dd3065013625f12a11)

### Citation

There is no published paper about this library. However if possible, please cite the library as follows:

```
Main Contributers:
Vahid Moosavi @sevamoo
Sebastian Packmann @sebastiandev
Iván Vallés @ivallesp 
```
